Buoyancy aid
  Helps a conscious person to stay aflot.
  This is usally the most appropriate choice for a dinghy as long as you are water confident.

Lifejackets
  Will support an unconscious person with their face clear of the water.

Spirit jacket
  Waterproof jacket.

Burgee (biurta)
  Show wind direction

Forestay (Estai de proa)

Shroud (Brandais)

Daggerboard (Bolina tipo guilhotina) 

Centerboard (Bolina tipo canivete, pivotante)

Mooring lines
  Painter
  Stern Line  

Halyard (Adriça)  

Traditional cleat
  Good for mooring lines and halyards

Cam cleat
  Good for sheets

Clam cleat
  Good for halyards

Rig
  Sail and mast

Rig type
  Bermudan rig
  Gunter rig
  Sprit rig
  Lug rig
  Gaff rig

Rigging is getting ready to launch
  Start putting the boat facing to wind.

Points of sailing
  No go zone
  Close hauled
    This is as close to the wind as you can go.
    The sails need to be pulled in tight.
  Close reach
    This is not quite so tricky.
    Let the sails out a little bit.
  Beam reach
    This is the fastest and easiest point of sailing.
    With the wind at side of boat.
    Let the sails out half way.
  Broad reach
    This is take you a bit further downwind.
    Let the sails out a bit more.
  Training run
    This keeps the wind slightly to on side of the stern which is easier to steer than a dead run.
  Run
    This brings the wind behind you, so the sails could be either side and all the way out.
    A run is the trickest to steer as it can be quite unstable.
    Setting on sail on each side is called goose-winged.

Sailing upwind
  Boats can sail in any direction EXCEPT INTO THE WIND.
  So if that's the way you want go you have to zigzag from side to side of the no go zone.
  This is called beating to windward and involves tacking the boat through about 90 degrees from close hauled to close hauled through the no go zone.

Sail trim
  Every time you chage direction, even a little bit, you have to adjust the set of the sails.
  This is done either by 'sheeting in' when turning close to the wind or 'easing the sheets' when turning away from the wind.
  
How do you know how far to trim the sails?
  The simplest way is to pull them in until tthe sail just stops flapping.

Port tack
  Wind coming over the port side of the boat.
Starboard tack
  Wind coming over the starboard side of the boat.

Tacking or Going about (Cambar)
  Check area is clear.
  Make sure you hvae enough speed to complete the tack.
  Centerboard should be down.
  
Getting into irons
  The boat goes head to wind and stays there.
To get going again
  Push the tiller away and push the boom away from you.
  Then pull the tiller toward you, pull in the mainsheet.
Another way to get out of irons
  Ease the sail and raise the centerboard.
  Wait for the boat to turn away from the wind.
  Then sail off.

Reaching up and down (First exercise)
  The easiest course to begin with is sailing across the wind (reaching) in figure eight course, tacking at each end.

Centerboard or daggerboard position
  Adjusted according to the amount of sideway force on the boat.
    Strongest when the boat is close hauled but.
    Virtually nothing at all on a run.


